Kontrol S4 Mk3: add documentation for the device (#550)
mixxxdj/manual: source/hardware/controllers/native_instruments_traktor_kontrol_s4_mk3.rst

Native Instruments Traktor Kontrol S4 MK3
=========================================

The Kontrol S4 MK3 is a 4 deck all-in-one controller with a sturdy build quality and integrated sound card.
Compared to the MK2, it also have motorised jogwheels and screens as well as a set of pads which can be use for various features.

> The MK3 uses the standard :term:`HID` protocol (also used by keyboards & mice) to send and receive signals from a computer, so it can work with Mixxx.

Reviewer: "Buttons, Knobs, Faders"
all lower case, please

Using the separate power supply increases the brightness of the LEDs, which is helpful for using it in daylight, and increases the volume of the headphone output.

-  `Manufacturer’s product page <https://www.native-instruments.com/en/products/traktor/dj-controllers/traktor-kontrol-s4/>`__

.. versionadded:: 2.4

Compatibility
-------------

The Kontrol S4 MK3 is a USB class compliant audio and :term:`HID`, so it is compatible with Mixxx without any proprietary drivers on GNU/Linux, MacOS and Windows.

With the S4 plugged in, a HID device is listed as an available controller in Mixxx’s Preferences.
The controller uses HID for each components on the device, except the screens, so the mapping can only be loaded when you select the HID device on the left side of Mixxx’s Preferences.

Controller
-------------

Setup audio output
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In order to use the audio output of the controller, `Channels 1 - 2` should be set as `Main` and `Channels 3 - 4` should be set as `Headphones`

   .. note:: The master and headphone knobs aren't mapped to Mixx but instead control the the hardware directly. If you don't use the controller output, these knobs won't have any effect.

>    .. note:: For a strange reason, if you chose a Sound API else then `ALSA`, the Master VU meter won't work. Furthermore, audio output will be slightly tone down.

Reviewer: :+1: 

plus it's Mixx**x** ; )

|                  |   :hwlabel:`SHIFT`                                               |   enabled                                |
+------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------+
| Turntable        | - Toggle on or off the turntable mode                            | - On: Turntable mode on, otherwise jog   |
|                  |                                                                  |   or vinyl                               |
+------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------+
| Jog              | - Toggle on or off the vinyl mode                                | - On: Vinyl mode on, otherwise jog or    |
|                  |                                                                  |   turntable                              |
+------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------+
| Deck Select      | - Select a deck                                                  | - The deck's main color will be the one  |

> |                  |                                                                  |   of the selected deck                   |

Reviewer 2: In the mapping you use hardcoded colors. AFAIK there is no way to read the deck colors.

|                  |   - :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + press will stop (if playing) or eject     |   loop rool is active with the given     |
|                  |                                                                  |   size                                   |
|                  | - While in keyboard:                                             |                                          |
|                  |                                                                  |                                          |
|                  |   - will set the key to the selected note                        |                                          |
|                  |   - will play from the cue if in keyboard play mode              |                                          |
|                  |                                                                  |                                          |
|                  | - While in beatlooproll mode:                                    |                                          |
|                  |                                                                  |                                          |

> |                  |   - will activate a beatlooproll of 0.065, 0.125, 0.25. 0.5, 1,  |                                          |
> |                  |     2, 4 or 8 beats                                              |                                          |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|                  |   - will activate a beatlooproll of 1/16, 1/8, 1/4, 1/2, 1,  |                                          |
|                  |     2, 4 or 8 beats                                              |                                          |
```

+------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------+
| FX 1st           | - Master volume/mix of the unit                                  |                                          |
| knob             | - Master volume/mix of the unit                                  |                                          |
+------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------+
| FX 1st           | - Trigger all effect                                             | - On if all effect are off and not       |
| FX 1st           | - Trigger all effect                                             |   pressing :hwlabel:`SHIFT`              |
| button           | - Assign/de-assign effect to master while pressing               | - On when effect is attached to master   |

> | button           |   :hwlabel:`SHIFT` and no focused effect                         |   and pressing :hwlabel:`SHIFT`          |

Reviewer 2: I wonder if `FX 1st button` will be rendered correct - can't check without preview

| FX Select        | Apply effect to all deck on release, if no mixer FX button have  |                                          |
| button           | been pressed                                                     |                                          |
+------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------+
| Ext              | Apply the current gain as default. This will reset the gain knob.|                                          |
+------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------+

Looping
^^^^^^^

===================================================== ==============================================================================
Control                                               Description
===================================================== ==============================================================================
Right Encoder (turn)                                  Double/halve loop size.
Right Encoder (press)                                 Activate/exit loop of set size from current position

> :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + REV (while no loops are enabled)   Set the loop in point. This will reset the loop out point as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`REV` (while no loops are enabled)   Set the loop in point. This will reset the loop out point as well.
```

Whether or not to use haptic drive features                             `useMotors`                                 false                                                                                                             true/false                                                                        Whether or not to use Haptic Drive related features. This is a beature feature, some of them may be unstable.
======================================================================= =========================================== ================================================================================================================= ================================================================================= ====================================================================================================================================================================================

> .. _the Mixxx control documentation: https://manual.mixxx.org/2.4/en/chapters/appendix/mixxx_controls.html#control-[Library]-sort_column

Reviewer 2: Please use no absolute link to version 2.4

> This settings are only useful if you are using Haptic Drive features

Reviewer 2: `Haptic Drive` is a Trademark - I'm not sure if we may use it in this sense

================================================================ =========================================== ============== ============================================== ==========================================================================================================================================================

Making these changes is still a little awkward and we will be making controller preferences easier to change in the future.
For now you’ll have to make a small change to the mapping script file. Don’t worry, the actual edit only involves replacing a single word in a text file.

1. Open Mixxx Preferences and select the Kontrol S4 in the side list.
2. Select :file:`Traktor-Kontrol-S4-MK3-hid-scripts.js`.
3. Click :guilabel:`Open Selected File`.
4. Either the file should open in an editor, or you should see a file browser window with that file selected. If you see a file browser, right click the file and select an option to edit it.

> 5. Starting from line 57, there should be configurable options.

Reviewer 2: This line number is already outdated, why not refer the section starting with the comment `USER CONFIGURABLE SETTINGS`
